and over.
Welcome to Andover Planning and Zoning.
Ah, Jay's here first. Excellent. All
right. Um, calling to order. Um, we're
to start with the public hearings. Um,
and I did this last time we had public
hearings. So, we're going to have the
applicants uh state what their intent is
and then
>> we'll have the first option here.
>> Yeah.
>> No.
>> Okay. Well, we should just go right.
>> We can skip and and do these.
>> Yeah. We'll skip right to B public
hearing B. and since they're here first
and then after they have their
presentation then we'll have any uh
questions from the planning and zoning
commission and then there'll be
discussion afterwards. Please keep it
civil if there's any questions about the
special permit.
>> U Mr. Chair.
>> Yes sir.
>> For the record John Guskowski. Um I I
don't recall if I if I heard it but it
you might just want to do a roll call
just to make sure that you've
established a quorum.
Okay, fair enough. Uh, members of
President Jed Larson, Scott Persona,
myself, Patrick Dhy, uh, alternates Jake
Oh, Leanne Hutchson, remote
Jay Cayman's alternate, and Kevin Art
alternate present.
>> Sweetness.
>> Okay,
>> Pat, I'm here as well. Ann Marie Del
alternate.
>> Great. All of our alternates are here.
That's excellent.
>> Thank you.
tonight after being hit by a car this
afternoon that happened in the area.
>> Okay, we're uh just to bring everybody
else up to speed that just logged on,
we're starting with uh public hearing B
application 26-4,
special permit application to construct
a market rate detached accessory
apartment. And I'm going to give it over
to Ron and Susan. Suzanne, sorry. Langu,
go ahead.
>> Thank you.
>> My name is Ron. Thank you for letting me
do my presentation tonight on our uh ADU
unit. I am trying to build an ADU unit
um separate from my house 20 ft away in
back of my two-car garage that's
attached to the house for my parents to
be able to give them care. Um they're
elderly and they need u care. So that's
my wife and I are taking care of them.
So, we're building this uh 9 800 Oh, no,
it's 795
uh square foot uh ADU unit and uh so I
have a Wayne, do you have um the floor
plan up there?
>> Yep. Okay,
>> actually we can start with Mr. Kane.
>> Thanks.
Actually,
do you want to do a plat plan first to
show where it's going to be? However you
want to do it. Um, probably that'd be a
good idea. Yeah.
So there there we have it. So, if you um
see the existing garage that's there now
that's attached to the existing
two-story house, 20 foot back, there is
a 28x 28 space and that's going to be
where the AD unit is. It'll be 6 foot
in. It's like a little driveway that
runs on the side of my existing garage
that goes back to our barn and it's
going to be six feet in from the
driveway and 20 ft from the house. Um,
it's not near any other property lines
at all. We're at least 500 to 1,000 ft
away from property lines on each side of
me and or way over 1,000 ft from back
property lines to front property lines.
You can't even see this thing when we're
driving up the driveway or from
anybody's property. So with that I was
asking for an exemption for um
23 2D 23 2 E 232F 23 2B 23.5
B1 23
5 C 23.5D
44.21.3
4.214
24.215
215. Being that they don't pertain to my
edu unit, I was asking the board would
exempt those for me. Um, and if you can
bring up the uh house plans
>> floor plan. Yes,
it it will be a onebedroom.
It will be um a one and a half bath set
up for wheelchair access and for uh easy
accessibility for them because they are
in their 90s. So I wanted to make
everything that way. It has their own
laundry. Uh she still prefers to do her
own laundry, but we can do it for them.
Uh and a wide open kitchen and living
room with no jobs in the floor.
Everything one floor all the way around
and heating going into the shower. Um,
and it's self-contained. It has their
own heating, their own air conditioning.
Electricity I will provide from my
house. The panel from my house is big
enough to handle the electricity for
their house. And they'll have their own
circuit breaker box in that in that
facility. Uh, the water will be supplied
from the well that feeds the house. It's
capacity is fine. and the septic system
is able to handle the extra bedroom and
it was signed off by the Eastern
Highlands um people and I do have
approval of that. Um
and it has access front access back. I
am putting a fl a frostfree
uh foundation 4 foot crawl space under a
house with a concrete floor uh and an
outside uh doghouse door for
accessibility if we have to ever access
any of the u I'm putting in floor
heating for them so that the floor is
always warm um for them. And I gave them
a fireplace that's going to be gas
fireplace so that if they're they're not
warm enough, they can always uh hit the
remote and get the fireplace to uh give
them other heat. And there'll be central
air conditioning will be duct work
through the truss ceilings. All
individual duct work so it's evenly
cooled through the house for them too.
Um and then it has its own kitchen. Uh
pretty much everything's self-contained.
There is pling. I did have pictures I uh
sent Lynn of the property of where it's
going to be and um there's plenty of
parking right now. I have the horse
trailer there, but we're going to take
the grass out, put spelling in there.
That's the road that'll be on the side
that goes to the barn you see in front
of the horse trailer. And where that
stake is is the far point of uh going to
the front of the house is where that
first stake is right there.
>> So, will they be parking across the
room?
>> They won't have a car. They won't they
don't drive anymore. We do pick them up
now, but we need to provide parking for
if they have company or if somebody down
the road moves in there or whatever has
a car. So, that whole thing will be
plenty of parking. It'll be at least
three, four cars of parking if they need
it.
>> So, there's a driveway coming right up
to the house. It's going to be
>> right. It's going to be that road going
to the barn right across. So, it'll be
right directly across from the house
that
Um,
and that did you ever want to bring up
the approval from the uh Eastern
Highlands? Let's
should we engineer this?
In 2020, I did have a new septic tank
put in and my fields were uh adequate at
the time. However, um we did have uh the
deceptive people come out again and they
checked everything over, put cameras
down and said everything is still in
great shape. My leechfield is still in
great shape and gave the all the
information to Glenn at Eastern
Highlands and he agrees and he sent it
to the state of Connecticut and they
signed off and said it's sufficient for
what we want to do.
the lighting. Now, there is existing
lighting out there now. Um, it stays on
all night long on the driveway and at
the barn for the horses in case, you
know, somebody had to access through a
horse or something at night. Um, and
there's also going to be uh uh outdoor
lighting on the house uh on both front,
back, and sides. So, there's plenty of
lighting for everything.
>> That's just something I added.
Does anybody have any questions?
>> So, do you have like a walkway between
your house and
>> There's going to be a walkway. Yeah. I
just haven't decided. There's two
entrances to my garage. Two regular door
entrances to the garage on the house.
One on the back side and one on the
front. After it's graded, I want to see
which one's the levelst once they get
the ADU unit in. It'll be the levelst
area. And that's what I'll have. That'll
be the walkway into that garage and then
right into my house. So,
>> from where your proposed parking is to
the house, you're going to have
>> right where that where that driveway is.
It'll either be a walkway right on the
side of that against my house and
against my garage going to the house or
between uh the front porch. um didn't
show it there, but
so where that unit is, if you go to
where you see this the silk fence right
between my house and there
>> there's a door that goes to my back
garage right there where that little
outdoor jog out is I can make a walkway
from there to there. I just want to see
what's going to be the easiest for them
once I get it get the structure
foundation in from there.
No problem.
>> I wonder plan B. It looks almost like
you you have two different lots here.
Look, it look to me like the accessory
unit be different than your house.
>> No, it's all one big
>> that's all one big lot. Just 24 acres up
there.
>> Uh and that's what the house and the
house is pretty much in the center of
the paper.
Apologies if I missed this earlier, but
did you say that the um the single
septic system was going to handle both
residences? Correct.
Anybody else?
>> Okay. Anybody else have all set? Thank
you.
>> Thank you. Any other questions from the
public?
Mr. Cage does a call on.
>> Okay. Thanks.
And uh the application uh
this this special permit application do
you think that everything was complete
here? As far as I'm concerned, yeah,
that everything is is in order. um
the only thing like he asked for he
asked for exemption from the A2
um A2 plot plan and this is actually
taken from a
polebar plan that
uh these guys must have done back in
2018 looks like
well
>> we have the uh we have Eastern Highlands
we have the checklist list
uh signage and and all that. The uh
notification of orders was done. Um he's
showing
ENS around the low
I left it up left it up to him to show
ENS around the low side of of the
structure since he's going to be doing
some excavating.
Um
I think it's all in order. Thank you.
Any public?
>> I asked for uh while I ask again. Is
there any uh input from the public?
Anybody online?
Okay. None being heard. Um,
>> close. I guess you can close this public
hearing, but hopefully Seth will be
given
>> any estimated time or
>> Well, he thought he was supposed to be
here at 7:30 for some reason.
>> Okay.
>> I don't know what to say, guys. Any
other members of the commission have any
other questions
before I close their public hearing?
>> None here. Thank you.
>> Thank you,
Leanne.
>> Hi.
>> Yeah, I'm trying to look on our website
at the same time. Is there a list
somewhere that I haven't come across yet
of the sections that Ron asked for
exemption from?
>> Because he said they didn't pertain to
him.
>> Um, yeah, it's part of the uh it's part
of the checklist,
I believe.
I've been going down the list. I didn't
get that far. Okay, as long as it's
there. Thank you.
>> There
it's
>> right here. It's the last page of the
checklist.
You got that in the end?
>> I see it. I just didn't know if it had
been posted separately, but I see it.
>> Y
>> sign. We're still going.
>> All right, everybody's done.
>> Good. We move on.
>> All right. Thank you very much. Lean.
All set now.
>> Everybody's all set. No other last
minute questions. before I close the
public hearing.
>> I don't.
>> Okay. Um, thank you very much.
>> Thank you.
>> You're welcome. So, you guys can hang
around and see what happens during a
regular meeting after Seth's recent.
>> Okay. Thank you.
>> All right.
>> Okay. Seth Kane. Uh,
welcome to Andover Planning Zoning. I
wanted to give you the quick spiel of
your presentation and then afterwards
the commission may have a couple
questions for you and then uh any public
comments and then um I ask anybody to be
respectful with their questions and then
after that we'll close the public
hearing. So,
>> do you want me to stand up there?
>> Uh, stand up where you're out of the
camera. I'll run
>> and then uh state your name and uh this
is a special permit application provide
gunsmithing and firearms trade for
service home occupation pursuant to
section 4.12A of the Andover zoning
rings. Go ahead.
>> All right. Uh yeah, my name is uh Seth
Kane. I'm I just moved here about uh
eight months ago. I'm actually a
Connecticut native, but I spent the last
five years in Houston, Texas, where I
met my fiance and, uh, she dragged me
back up here. So, um, back in
Connecticut, I'm happy to be here.
Really appreciate this town, and I've
really much enjoyed, uh, living here so
far. Um, I reside over on, uh, East
Street, um, with my fiance, two cats on
98 property. Um the reason for my uh
special application is that uh I have a
degree in economics. I've worked in
offices my entire life. It's been
something I do for work, but my passion
has always been uh restoration work. Um
I do I've done work on uh furniture,
cars. Um I used to do extensive work on
machining, electrical presses, lathes,
things of that nature. And um I very
much believe in giving objects of
history a second chance. I'm I consider
myself a big time history buff in some
aspects. Um but uh when I was 18 or 19,
I was very mechanically minded. I
started moving from drill presses and
other things like that to I started
working with firearms a little bit. Um I
was just a target shooter at first, but
I discovered that gunsmithing itself is
a dying art. Um there's not many people
around that do it kind of in the same
realm as blacksmithing. It is not so
much uh these days about using technique
or appreciation for you know the way
that uh wood is wood is uh manipulated
or metal or things like that. There's a
historical aspect to it in terms of
trying to preserve things that exist in
these objects of history. Um, my
specialty has been always working on old
Winchester cowboy action lever guns,
things like that. And, uh, me
personally, I'm not I'm not a political
person. Um, I'm very private. Um, but
I've always been just fascinated by
design and things like that and actually
using these old techniques to keep um,
you know, these objects alive. And um in
understanding that I've really decided
that since we purchased our home and
that uh you know we are trying to become
members of the community and offer
something to the community um I would
like to offer these services not just in
firearms but also just in furniture and
fabrication work as well. Um and on uh
recommendation from my attorney um he
suggested that I file for his permit and
federal license just to make sure that
I'm kosher with the state of Connecticut
and the federal government and acting
and performing these services. So um
that's that's the purpose of my
application. I no way, shape or form
want to uh have any sort of impact on a
negative impact on my surrounding
neighbors or the community or anything.
Um I respect them extremely. I've had
great interactions with a couple of them
so far that I've encountered and um yeah
uh it's the nature of the business is
predominantly just working in my garage
um filing paperwork on behalf of people
by an appointment only basis and you
know having a UPS truck show up every
now and then to uh do with out of state
work and actual um you know parts and
things that I can fabricate or repair
for people. Um that's the entirety of
the business as it sits right now. Um,
and in terms of um, lack of iron and
things of that nature, um, I am a member
over at the Andover Sportsman Club. Um,
so I I have that as an option should
that be inceptated. But, um, I do live
on a 9 acre property. Um, there's a very
extensive downhill slope that goes
through the the entire property. It
bottoms out at an area that's about 5
500 yards, I believe, from the road, I
would estimate. And there's a sufficient
safety uh uh um options for you know a
burn or things of that nature to make
sure that if there was a live fire
required if any of these restoration
works um you know I would have a safe
option to do that and to you know
construct it and do things in a safe
manner. Um yeah and uh that's that's my
presentation. Um I did I did bring down
my map in case uh anyone needs
>> you should probably give them your map
>> right. And uh yeah, this is um just the
the copy I drew up. Much appreciated to
Wayne for helping me uh get a copy of
this. Um just to point things out, um
our home is actually here and the entire
property spans all the way to um East
Street on this side. Um we do have a
ponds that covers about one acre and
that's located down at the bottom here.
We've also clear that's predominantly
forest and you know that's what we can
property. So, um, if anybody's take a
look at this, I can pass this around
into view.
>> Yeah, I take any questions. Uh, you're
doing all the work inside of existing
structures. Correct.
>> Yeah, that's correct. Um, all the
machinery would be low noise. Uh, you
know, typical drive work stuff. anybody
that's ever worked in a garage on
Mustangs or anything like that. It it's
it's it's very small time and I don't
anticipate actually having any sort of
uh hazard hazardous uh chemicals or
anything like that. Um no explosives,
nothing nothing of that nature.
>> So, is this your full-time job or is
this a
>> It's a It's a hobby. It's a hobby I've
been doing for a number of years just to
supplement my income and you know it's
just it's mostly been a hobby. I work in
aerospace right now for a circuit board
manufacturer. Um
but besides that I've worked in
manufacturing fields and logistics as
well when I was in Texas. So um I have a
very a very solid understanding of
machining and uh um repair work and
things like that from doing so.
>> Thanks. Uh, any questions from the
commission?
>> The only question I have is did we make
the application broad cover all the
things he said he wants to do? It was
focused on firearms that now we're
adding furniture restoration, that sort
of thing. Should we put that on the
application just so that it's complete
with everything that you want to do?
Oh, add
I
>> uh the furniture part of it is something
that I figured I would offer to the
community just to to assist and help,
but um I don't really expect it to be a
major part of the business. There's
>> I mean, if it's something you're going
to do, I think it's easy enough to to
get that on the record and make it part
of the application, right? Yeah.
>> Yeah.
It's more so just that, you know, people
around to your right.
>> I mean, technically, you can be working
with you're you are refinishing
>> socks and forearms and stuff like that.
So, seems to me furniture goes right
along with that in a way kind of.
>> Yeah. And it's it's just a service to
offer to the community community. So, if
somebody needs a piece of metal
fabricated or something welded, um,
anything like that, I'd like to offer it
just to give people an option because
when I was growing up, I didn't know how
to use any of these tools, I didn't have
access, trying to find somebody that
could weld or machine something for my
barbecue that I made or, you know, my
bike or something like that, it was
never really available. Um, I grew up in
Fairfield County and Fairfield. Exactly.
And uh everybody there pretty much white
collar goes to the city every day and
doesn't really do a whole lot on the
weekends in terms of intricate work like
that. So
>> how do you advertise?
>> Um I predominantly operate just on the
internet. I I am part of a couple
collecting forums and uh through those I
just maintain relationships with people
and uh yeah
So, u I know I had asked you this and
you addressed it um in your
presentation.
Um
but um
would you consider
um purchasing a bullet trap rather than
outdoor live fire?
>> Um potentially. Sure. Yeah. It's if it's
something that commission would require,
I would certainly into a
>> the commission could possibly make that
a conditional
or something like that. I mean, it be be
up to them, but um
I mean, for what it's worth, I know that
a couple of my neighbors uh discharge
firearms regularly on their property, so
I'm not sure it's um it would be a
concern for them. Um but obviously that
option is presented.
>> Well, obviously from my perspective it
it it's sort of like depends upon
the volume. You know, if you're
successful and you get a lot of work,
you could potentially,
you know, you have to do the potential
there all the time, then then Wayne
might have to face a
>> complaint. Complaint calls. Yeah. Right.
So we would need to know the frequency
slash you know is this is that going to
be a planned thing all the time or just
be a member of the Andover sports club.
You
>> said you got the I mean the sportsman
club is obviously the ideal
>> that would be the ideal.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. It's not a frequent occurrence
but the the majority of work that I end
up doing is just uh restoring things
that actually still function and the
live fire is not always necessary in
doing that. So if I'm restoring a piece
of wood for somebody or if I'm just
making sure something's safe to operate,
a lot of fire is not always fired. And
with the amount of work I do now, um I
don't even directly work on firearms
like because of licensing and things
like that. The work I do is actually
building parts and making sure that
components are available for people to
repair their own firearms on their own
with. So the structure of my business
right now is even revolving around live
fire. Okay,
anybody online? Any questions?
Open up to public questions.
>> Wanda, do you have everything you need
for the application?
>> I have everything I need for the
application.
>> I was like need Eastern Highlands. Um,
>> right.
>> Using the existing structures, not
adding anything.
>> Okay.
>> Uh, he's
there's some exhibits, you know, made
him aware of the signage
uh limitations, restrictions and, uh, a
sign on the garage itself
or you can put a sign on the building,
you can put a sign, small sign on the
road so chooses.
>> Very good.
All right. Since uh we have no other
questions, uh
you're welcome to stay until we make a
decision later or you can leave. We're
going to close the public hearing now.
>> Sounds good.
>> Thank you very much.
>> Public hearing is closed now. These guys
go into their regular meeting and they
got some steps to go through and they
may or may not deliberate on your
application tonight. Um, but you're
welcome to stick around.
>> Um,
>> understanding that during the regular
session, the only people asking
questions and conversations back and
forth are commission members amongst
themselves and professional staff.
There's not supposed to be any outside
conversation.
Thanks.
>> Right.
Time is now 7
and we're calling to order the regular
planning and zoning meeting. Uh first
we're going to see
at present is Jed Larson. Scott Persan,
myself, Patrick Dhy,
Leanne Hutcherson,
and we would we now need to see an
alternate um
last time. Was he right? Um or
still there
Kevin Art, would you like to be seated?
>> Are you asking me? I'm sorry. You're
>> cut.
>> Would you like to be seated?
>> Sure.
>> Okay. And seat was uh Henry D.
>> Thank you.
>> All right. Thank you. So, next is uh
additions and changes to the agenda a
agenda. We would like to add a
6B for Jessica Chapman uh owner of
Whispering Hills for a discussion about
um
>> concepts of development.
>> Concepts of development. Thanks Scott.
>> Um that's all six feet though.
>> Yeah, we're going to get there in a
little while
for anyone that's not been to the
apartments. Is that okay? First they
have to do a motion to add it to the
agenda to approve the motion.
>> Thank you.
>> And then when we get to 6B
and I have a motion
>> I'll make a motion.
>> Oh, thank you.
I'll second.
>> All in favor?
>> I
motion passes. All right. Um,
item four, public speak. Is there
anything?
>> Yes, Leanne. Go ahead,
>> Patrick. This is Leanne. Um, are we
ready to add an item to fill our our
full member vacancy to to name someone
tonight?
>> No, not just yet. the
the
submission of letters of uh interest
um are open until Monday, May 18th.
>> Okay. That's that that satisfies the
timeline for notifying the town clerk,
etc. And it that's the date that it
ends.
>> Yes, that's that's the date we me and
clerk came up with.
Okay, very good.
>> Any other public speak of about topics,
concerns not on the agenda?
Okay, moving along. Old business. Um,
we're now going to consider special
permit application. Do we do those in
the order that we receive them?
>> There's no difference.
>> Right.
Let's start with A then. Uh special
permit application 26-3.
Uh the gunsmithing special per
you know what Wayne thought of about you
know if you start getting complaints
you're going to have to
sometime what did you call it? A bullet
trap.
>> I just thought that was maybe one one
alternative. Obviously using the annual
sportsman's club would as Mr. Kane
>> indicated
would be the best solution. Um, I
I suppose the commission could put a
condition that that the sportsman's club
be used exclusively for any live fire
related to the gunsmithing operation
or that if there are complaints then has
to purchase a bullet trap or something
like that. Um,
I think I've
Leave that up to you guys. Whichever you
think.
>> Well, I don't think we should require it
to enforcement, but you're free to shoot
on your property and free property.
>> If it gets to be excessive, then you
know,
>> see what we can do about that.
>> Yeah, that's all right.
I'm okay with that. That's fine.
Leanne Henry.
>> Um, I apologize. I didn't look at the
map, but is is that a more populated
area of East Street or whereabouts is
that?
>> Oh,
how far from uh Hurst? A couple blocks
down from Hurst. You know,
yeah.
>> Okay. That that side.
>> Yeah. There there are residences on
either side. He has nine acres I believe
in between.
>> Okay.
>> I have no question. Thank you.
>> Thank you.
>> Anybody want to make a motion?
Make a motion to approve the
application. I'll second. All right. And
uh let's take a vote. Uh any discussion
on the motion? Any discussion on motion?
>> Should we verify the application to put
the furniture restoration in there?
>> I think you should if if Mr. Kaine
indicated that that's something he
intended on pursuing. I understand
that's not as politically sensitive as
you know firearm restoration, but if
that's what your business is going to
include,
we ought to have the uh we ought to
grant you that authority to go out and
do your business.
>> Makes sense to add it now rather than
later.
>> And we amend that now. You can just do
it in the motion.
>> So,
>> okay. I amend my motion to uh add the
word furniture restoration. So, it would
be
application 26-3
SD to provide furniture restoration and
gun smithing and firearms transfer
service home occupation pursuant to
section 4.12 A2 with the andor zoning
regulations.
Any new discussion or
we're ready to take a vote?
>> Hearing no discussion.
>> J I
>> Leanne
>> I
>> Ann Marie
>> and I for myself motion passes 500.
>> Yeah. permit been granted.
>> Congratulations. You're done for now.
>> Oh yeah, check with Wayne.
>> Yeah, you'll be getting some
correspondence from the office
filing and stuff like that.
>> We'll we'll be in contact tomorrow.
>> Y Okay.
>> Thank you everyone. You
>> all right? Moving on to
special permit application 26-4 SP.
Mission style.
I'll make a motion to approve
application 26-4
SB. I'll second that. Any discussion?
My only question was those uh items that
they're asking for exception. None of
those correct for
>> um
>> or is that were those required?
>> He's asking for exemption from he asked
for exemptions from uh the A2 survey
requirement or the A2 site plan
requirements.
>> Okay.
>> Um he presented information I think the
commission um can rely upon to make a a
reasoned decision. So um I don't see any
issue with it.
with the commission has seen worse.
Let's clear it that way.
Oops.
Any other discussion or
can I get a motion?
>> Thank you. Sorry.
>> Any other discussion? Last chance.
All right. Let's take a vote. Uh I'll uh
Chen.
>> Hi,
>> Scott.
>> Hi, Leanne.
>> Hi,
>> Ann Marie.
>> and I for myself. Motion passes 500.
>> Congratulations. You'll be hearing from
me tomorrow about the next steps.
>> One second. It could be a beautiful
house.
>> Yeah,
>> you could patent that and make the
senior housing for
>> Maybe we can move into it when we get
old. Our kids can take over the house.
You're going to be the engineer for the
next day you hand over because it was
very complete and good. That was very
nice. Nice. Thank you.
>> We don't get them like that.
>> Well, I think you should express
everything you want to do with the town
so you guys know exactly what we're
doing, right?
>> Thank you. Appreciate it.
>> Thank you.
>> Made it easy to approve.
>> All right. New business. Um
we'll start with the informal discussion
of con uh concepts for development of
lint home corners property. Um
welcome again.
>> Thank you.
>> And um same as uh the other like the
public hearing with you your
presentation and we'll have questions
and then
>> yeah. Thank you. And uh before I get
started, how many how much time do we
have?
Um, you know,
>> there's no set limit as long as you
don't go to mid. I'll
>> practice gravity. Uh, do
>> you have the uh you want to put the
letter that these guys sent us?
>> Yeah, sure.
>> Do that. Give me a second.
>> While he's doing that, I just want to
express that I'm also I'm a member of
the economic development commission
movement. Okay. And uh this is in line
with our newest plan of conservation
development. And u uh John Viscowski,
our town planner, can also attest to
that. You know, we're looking for
reasonable development in our town that
uh fits our rural character. So awesome.
Well, uh thank you for that. Good
evening everyone. My name is Lesley
Lesley Khour. Um I'm onethird of the
group that wants to uh propose and to
discuss this informal concept here for a
mixeduse development. um in what used to
be the Rosewood Acres um uh not too far
from here. So, I have I have Sean
Callahan here and Gavin um on on the
Zoom line. Gavin Duffy and Sean are uh
the other partners on the entity. And
so, um we just uh actually executed a
purchase and sale agreement with the
current owner, Keith Keith Grimmaldi,
and uh subject to closing on on on
acquiring that that land. uh we just
want to uh have a discussion with with
the commission and we want to see if the
ideas that we have uh can be supported
by the commission and the town and see
if you know there is any opportunity to
to iterate uh around India to plan if if
there's feedback to do so and just
really uh get a feel for you know what
the town is looking for does this make
sense um and uh you know can we go ahead
and make the sort of heavy capital
investment um required to be we go
through this. And so, uh, with that
said, I'll just get right into it. So,
uh, the the land size is approximately
56.47
acres and it's located along, uh, the
Route 6, um, in Andover, uh, and and I
believe it's commonly known as as the as
the Rosewood Acres, um, as I mentioned
earlier. So, this proposal here outlines
a mixeduse development concept. um call
it from a 10,000 foot view that would
essentially transform this vacant lot
into uh and also was previously approved
for a subdivision um into you know what
we consider as a vibrant tax contributed
community of residential town home
apartments um and the neighborhood scale
retail along that corridor serving both
local housing demand um and uh the
commercial corridor as well. So, uh,
what what we're looking to do just to,
you know, minimize the amount of
reinvention of the wheel that we need to
do and also have a clear path to green
here because we understand the size of
the land and we can get very ambitious,
but we want to be very mindful about
just obviously the rural district design
and what makes sense. And so rather than
do, you know, high-rise apartment
complexes with a lot of shared common
space, we just feel like it just
wouldn't really fit well in a community.
And so we were thinking something more
along the lines of um various town home
communities that are situated on on a 56
acre parcel um with um you know a modern
farmhouse facad and and um exterior look
which we have uh some rebrance of in
there. And so uh currently there are uh
existing lot lines that are indicating
the 10 uh lot subdivision that was
previously approved. Now, obviously, if
we were to uh if we were to gain the
commission's approval um and work on
even propose and proceed with this, uh
we would reinvent the wheel on, you
know, getting a surveys done and not
assume that everything is is still good
to go. Um and so, essentially, we're
looking at lots 1 through 10. Again, the
same lots that were previously uh uh
approved for the subdivision. uh lot one
which is right on the Route 6 front page
there. Uh we are proposing a 15 15,000
square foot uh neighborhood grade uh
commercial building and we can discuss
some ideas that we have for that in
terms of uh IU tenants that we do
envision for that place that would also
serve the community quite well. And uh
lots two and three um uh we're proposing
eight and uh six and eight town homes
respectively. And then as we go through
lots four and six, 12 homes, 12 town
home units, and then lots eight and 10,
uh, 12 town home units as well. Um, as
you can see, we have indicated lot 7 to
be held for phase two or future
development. Um, but we actually, um,
you know, have a little bit more color
that we would like to add to that. We we
would want to consider possibly a
storage um, unit facility back there. We
think uh you know in our line of work uh
we just completed a a a new construction
development in in um Manchester um and
and we own several units in in in the
central Connecticut area. Uh with these
types of housing, you know, storage
facilities does tend to be a very u
important sort of additional option for
for most folks in a limited community to
have. Um and and we thought that would
be a good add to have there. So, so
that's what we have in mind from a
future development perspective.
Um, so moving on, what we did is we we
put together, again, this is an informal
concept and so it's not a general
development um plan that a site engineer
per se has put together. Uh, but but
Gavin Duffy, one of our partners that's
on the phone, he's a civil engineer by
trade. And so, he was able to kind of um
really help us put together, you know,
how we envision uh the lots um to be uh
uh split apart. And then obviously the
buildings that are situated on it. So,
um,
John, I don't know if you want to scroll
up a little bit. I think we're bit
>> Yeah. Where?
>> Yeah. You tell me. Tell me where you
want to go.
>> Um, so a little bit up. We're looking
for the
the lot. Yes. Right there. A little bit
up. Right there.
>> Okay. Yeah.
>> Layout. So, as you could see right there
on lot one, which is on the on your
upper right corner, which is right there
on Route Six, I believe the existing
zoning for that is in a business
district as well. Um, and there's
already an approval with the DOT for
curb cut directly into Route 6 as well.
And um the the lot, you know, we looked
we also looked into um from a zoning
requirement perspective, you know, what
do we need to to have in there from a
parking requirements? and we were able
to um to to lay over that and and we
were able to meet sort of, you know,
what the requirement is. Um and so lots,
you know, you know, lots two and three,
uh lot two right above lot one and then
three a little bit to the right over
there. Uh the reason why we're proposing
um six and eight units on that as
opposed to the 12 units for the
remaining lots is because in in
reviewing the uh the so a couple things
uh with the subdivision these were
reszone to residential lots. However, if
you look at the property carts right now
uh they do indicate it's ARD which is
the uh Andover rural uh district design.
And uh we do believe there's a
requirement for there to be uh for the
entire impervious use including the
building structure itself uh driveways
um uh parking uh decks things of that
sort to not exceed 15%. Um and so uh uh
for those two lots, if we matched sort
of the the 12 units, uh for the
remaining lots, we would be reaching
that by a couple percentages. And so we
scaled it down to be conforming with the
existing um uh uh zoning for those lots.
And then as you move through to uh from
lots three for uh pardon me four through
10 with the exception of lot seven which
is all the way further up there um there
is enough square footage uh to meet the
uh uh the zoning requirement for the uh
uh imperous use uh as well as uh parking
as well. And so this is just a general
layout. Obviously, you know, we do have
an engineer engaged that we would be
working with uh to actually go ahead and
make sure that we're we're looking at it
from a topography perspective. Um, you
know, where the placements are do make
sense. Again, you know, Gavin is a civil
engineer by trading. So, we did look at
that and consider that very greatly to
make sure that the informal concept at
least is close to where the the the real
placements are actually going to end up
being. Um and so yeah, you know,
obviously this isn't a huge piece of
land, but uh and we could fit twice as
many in there, but for a lot of
different reasons, we just and the most
important one being uh you know, this
being a rural district, we just felt
this approach is is a little is a lot
better and not sort of overly uh
creating an overly dense um uh community
there. So, uh I'll move ahead uh unless
there's any questions in the meantime.
Awesome.
So, uh, we did discuss a little bit
about the full, uh, the lot assignment.
And so, I'm going to I'm going to, uh,
move a little bit I'm going to move on
from that. Uh, one of the things that we
would be looking to sort of get a good
understanding from the commission and
and as well as as as Wayne as well from
a zoning perspective is so as we look to
um, you know, proceed with the proper
path to to this development um, it would
be great to kind of have an
understanding around you know does the
existing zoning either from this the
subdivision or the ARD um, allow us to
do some sort of a text amendment to to
uh, proceed or we would have to go
through the promo uh, zoning change.
We're more than willing to to to go down
either path that the commission does
require. Obviously, we want to balance
this with, you know, what the least path
of resistance is without any trade, you
know, without trade in for quality per
se. Um, and we would be looking to, you
know, if if all things considered look
good probably and gain all the approvals
that we needed, we would probably be
ready to break ground at some point
later this year. Um, and so we're more
than happy to to follow the direction
and directive of the commission and zone
it as well. Uh, but it would be good to
sort of understand between the existing
ARB zoning and the previously approved
residential zoning, uh, what would be
sort of the proper path, the text
amendment or sort of a new zonal change.
Um, so I'm I'm going to touch a little
bit on on the retail component. Um, so
lot one is uh currently is 1.58 acres
which is about 68,000 square foot. Um,
and it's the only lot with direct Route
6 front uh frontage and it's it's
located immediately adjacent to what
seems to be the business district zone.
So what we're thinking is a singlestory
commercial building shell uh up to
15,000 square foot and I believe the
stat the the statutory maximum under
section 8.2 two of the Andover zoning
regulations. um uh uh is is this
conforms with it pretty well and and
we're thinking about dividing into three
equal units about 5,000 square foot each
and hopefully can bring in some
businesses um uh like the Starbucks and
um one of the ideas that we were also
thinking about too uh which we think
would be a great add to the community is
uh seeing if we could partner with the
grocery store chain like a big lie to do
a build to suite that obviously would
make sense for them you We want to also
know what ideas the town may have in
mind for that as well. Um, and the
development of of the retail store would
probably be pushing the tail end of this
project. Um, so that we can also have
the option to market and build the suit
uh built a suit uh facility for prospect
tenants as well. Um, and so that's
that's the retail component of it. Um,
and you know, obviously in the interest
of time, uh, I'm not going to to to go
through every single uh, word verbatim
here, but for from 10,000 foot view,
that's what we're looking at. Um, John,
if you don't mind scrolling down a
little bit so we can all have a look at
the conceptual um, so this is this is
the uh, conceptual rendering for the
town hall units that we're looking at.
They would all be in a row. Um, and so
for the 12 units, we would either have
six and six in two two buildings or just
12 in one one full row. Um, and with the
the six and eight, they're they're more
than likely going to be just one row. We
plan to put a garage in each one of them
with a driveway um leading up to it,
just so it feels it has that single
family feel to it a little bit more um
than just, you know, a high-rise
apartment living uh uh sty style feel.
with this being, you know, a rural
district, that more modern farmhouse,
um, facade, um, you know, we think, uh,
it would certainly sort of reintroduce a
more modern style living and and and,
uh, yeah, modern style living that still
feels very much like landover in my
perspective. Yeah.
>> Um, was it anticipated that these would
be sold or rented?
>> No. So, these would be rented. So these
would be uh rental communities and we uh
plan to uh own them ourselves, manage
them ourselves and most other
properties. Yeah.
>> So uh we we did sort of do a snapshot of
the land use and zoning considerations.
Um I I think for the most part I I did
sort of touch on this and and we have
some questions that we can dive into
here in a little bit, but
essentially you know the the zone
analysis by by each lot um uh uh looking
at either existing sort of again there's
a bit of an end between those two zonins
for the ARD and uh the residential
zoning and so with either one uh the the
considerations that went into this allow
allows for conformity um and being in
compliance to that. Um and I think you
know what we would want to get a good
sense of is um you know what is the
actual current state from a zoning
perspective um from the commission's
perspective and and Wayne's perspective
where do we need to be um so that we can
come up with path to green and and get
to that point.
>> So Mr. share.
>> Y
>> if I might, I'm gonna stop share just
for a second.
>> So, for the record, John Gusowski, uh
planner, um and I thought we I I'm
sorry, Leslie, I thought we had talked
about this. Um the the town does have in
their zoning regulations and and really
I think the if not the only way forward
certainly the the easiest way forward
would be to propose
um a reszoning of this property to the
Andover mixeduse floating zone which is
section 26 of the zoning regulations
um which basically uh allows property
with frontage on Route 6 is eligible and
obviously this property does have
frontage on Route 6 to um develop via
master plan which is sort of the start
of what you've got going there. Um a a
mixeduse development that includes
elements of commercial and residential
including multif family and in fact I
think it is the only path forward for a
multif family development currently in
our zoning regulations. Um and it would
allow this this sort of density. It
would allow this sort of development and
particularly, you know, focused as as
you you have with the retail component,
the the the commercial component
fronting Route Six with the residential
essentially behind. um that all of these
properties would be considered
essentially part of the same master plan
concept that the commission would need
to essentially adopt the master plan and
therefore um use that master plan as as
a cause to change the zoning district
from its uh ARD which is which is
basically the the residential design
district in in Andover to this mixeduse
concept and then following that um
following that reszoning conversion of
zone designation to adopt uh the the the
ultimate proposal as a special permit or
special exception. Um and I'm I'm
looking to Jed to sort of confirm my my
analysis of that.
>> I think uh you're correct. Thank you. I
looked at the uh planned residential
development section and the mixed use
and uh
I think
my initial
previous understanding of the mixed use
was kind of a residential building with
apartments on top of it.
So when I first saw the uh the plan with
you know 80 some apartments I said wow
that's that's kind of big and I didn't
know if that was with in the intent of
the big use or not but I I did see the
words in there that the commission had
lots of uh leeway lots lots of leeway.
So I I think you know that the mixed use
is probably the right way to go.
Um
the other
the question that I had that I can have
now is you know we're bringing in
80ome units.
Um, I know you mentioned the word
affordable housing in your discussion
there somewhere.
>> I think it would be a shame to have
80ome units come into Andover and not
have the affordable component when we're
struggling
>> so vitally to get any affordable housing
here and uh but again what your thoughts
are on that maybe.
>> Yeah, so um great point. Um so these are
intended to be affordable housing. Um,
but I will be frank. So when we say
affordable housing, we're not saying,
you know, it's it's relative affordable
to Andover, right? What's the median
income for Andover and can folks in the
median income uh bracket be able to
afford um these housing units? And and
that's what we mean by by uh affordable
housing. Um and so these are uh not by
any means um luxury uh housing priced at
a price point that would be above you
know the median income what the median
income folks can afford in Andover. Um
and so in that sense it will be
affordable but it's not you know um
we're not we're not using uh a
government subsidy loan like a HUD 22F
loan to build it and we have to do some
kind of like a projectbased housing um
subsidized housing. Right.
So, so John, if you could you take a
minute and go over that, please.
>> Sure. So, um, well, okay. So, so what it
seems like, uh, Leslie is is proposing
is basically,
uh, a different market niche in Andover,
which is, you know, probably below the
median sales or rental price currently.
Um, it doesn't sound like he's
necessarily proposing any deed
restriction or income limits. So, you
know, if if Elon Musk decided he wanted
to live in one of those town houses, he
could. He didn't need to be below the
the the area median, um what what we
would call affordable, it would be some
sort of deed restriction to limit the
income of the the residents to, you
know, 80% or less of the area median
income. Um which is, you know, a target
for the town. Um, it's something that,
you know, if if we were to get further
into this, Leslie and Gavin and others,
if if it's something you guys were
willing to consider, we could look at
things like density bonuses or, you
know, additional units should some of
the the the um units be restricted and
available to um, you know, folks at at
lower at 60 or 80% of the area median.
But um yeah, that's you know it it would
be our preference to expand the range of
housing options uh including those who
make less than the area median but you
know we understand market realities as
well and and so if there's an
opportunity to kind of work together I
think there's some you know some good
discussions to be had.
>> Is there a percentage of the units that
you would want to be affordable income
and be deed restricted?
I'll I'll throw and this is you know
ultimately the commission's decision. I
I would throw out an initial benchmark
of 20% but I think you know we
understand development and and you know
you have to make the you have to make
your numbers work. Um
you know there are there are some state
and federal you know tax credit programs
you know uh and that sort of thing to to
help you know your your capital stack.
But um you know a a traditional what we
would call in uh incentive housing would
be 20% of the units restricted at 80% of
a area median income. That would be sort
of the the the baseline.
But you know that's that's obviously
subject to negotiation and we'd have to
crunch the numbers.
>> Yeah and we can John as you said we
haven't crunched the numbers. We we can
certainly consider that um especially if
it's economically viable. Um uh but yes,
yeah, we could we could certainly
consider that.
>> Uh yeah, because I and you know, in a in
a relatively what what I've seen in the
past, you know, a relatively wellto-do
town, um you know, your your delta
between your 80% AMI for renters and
your market rate, what you would charge
for those townhouse units could be
pretty close. you know, it may not be
that much of a delta at all, but but
yeah, we'd have to we'd have to crunch
through those numbers,
>> but it would certainly be helpful with
the town
>> to have some of those deed restricted so
that we can start building our, you
know, each town's goal is supposed to be
10%. We're sitting at about 5% now. So,
you we need another
>> 50 some units
>> to get out of that 10%.
>> Now, let me ask this. Do the units need
to be deed to fit the that requirement
or it's the price point they end up
being leased at?
>> Um, again, so there's going to be some
devil in the details, but it needs to uh
be essentially an all-in cost. So, you
know, your total cost of rent, which
would include, you know, base rent, uh,
whatever, utilities included,
>> um, would need to total up to less than
30% of the income of somebody making,
you know, the 80% of the area median.
So, a lot of percentages, but basically
30% of the of the 80%. And if you want
to do just rough, you know, back of the
envelope numbers,
you'd be talking, let's say, let's say
the the the median household is is
$100,000 in Andover. 80% of that is
$80,000 income. 30% of that of 30% of
80,000, which would be the housing
budget of that moderate income person,
is uh what? 24,000.
um and and then you divide that by 12,
you're basically looking at an all-in
rent of 2,000 or less.
>> So, so I'll tell you this. Um the the
the where we probably need to gain
better alignment is sort of deed in the
units for that or not because that rent
amount is right in line with what we're
projecting for the entire complex for,
right? Um, and so we're more than happy
to work with with commission to figure
out how it needs to be appropriately
done so the t the town can claim that
rent too, right? Um, and so if it's
something that has to do with just, you
know,
what's the dollar amount families and
folks end up paying to be able to live
there on a monthly basis and ends up all
of them fits that sort of map, you could
say all those units are in that bracket,
right? But um again it goes back to uh
what qualifies it to fit that
requirement. Does it need to be deed or
or not?
>> Right. Um
>> right there would there would need to be
some I mean again in order for the town
or or to get sort of formal credit for
it. There would need to be something in
it would need to be an affordability
plan. We would need to get basically
annual reports that indicate that you
know 20% of your occupants qualify.
>> Absolutely. So we that's you know um uh
we're more than happy to consider that.
Yeah.
Obviously you know not speak too
generally before we discuss this but you
know feel free to chime in Gavin and
Sean if if you if you feel otherwise. Uh
but yes that's that's something that
that we would consider. Um
and uh yeah I mean you know I'm I'm
local to this area. I don't live in
Andover. My office is in Mansfield. Um,
and uh, it's right behind the the uh,
uh, the the mall. And so I I take this,
I drive, I take the Route 6 route every
day for years now. So, um, I know the
housing supply would be would be a good
ad. I have, uh, folks that work with us
and and work for me that that live in
this community. So, uh, we know that the
housing supply is a bit restricted and
we think that we can we could definitely
add a ton of value with with this mixed
use opportunity. Um
be before I I go ahead, do you have any
questions you want to
>> Yeah. Okay.
>> So, one thing we would be looking to
possibly do is separate each lot into
its own deed.
Is that going to be an issue with the
whole reasoning when we go if you want
to do that whole mixed use, what you
call a mixeduse floating zone?
Yeah, I I would not think so. Um I you
know it I guess it depends on how you
are what you're proposing to do. If
you're proposing to essentially
condoize them or like basically because
I think this was a subdivision and then
it was merged back. So it's currently a
single lot again, right?
>> Yeah.
>> So John, what we want to do is we want
to we want to retain. So, so we would we
would apply for the same subdivision
that was dissolved for the 10 lots and
keep the the the the sort of previously
approved lot lines
>> and we want each one of those 10 lots to
be separately needed.
>> Oh, for septic purposes.
>> Yes. But it's for permit purposes.
>> Sure.
>> But but for a couple of reasons that we
think are critical. Um, so the first one
is is that we we want to be able to
supply units for people to move in
before we're done with the whole thing,
but it's also critical to how we're
staggering our financing be able to get
through. Um and so you know couple and
what we're looking to do is we're
looking to develop a couple at a time um
and essentially uh uh uh liquidate the
equity that we've built from that and
roll it on into the next and kind of go
into a rolling phase which is kind of
pretty similar to how we do our current
projects. Um but it it is also the path
that we can confidently speak to being
able to really execute this whole thing
within 36 months.
>> Okay. Yeah. So there's yeah a couple of
things there and I mean
um I don't I mean we we haven't done and
again I I'll look to Jed as the as the
the recent uh wisdom of the commission
here. we haven't done much of this kind
of mixeduse uh floating zone and I I'm
pretty pretty positive that we haven't
dealt with
>> kind of a combined o overlay and
subdivision but you know I think the the
whole thing would have to be presented
as a master plan concept in order to
land the zone at that point
>> um and then
we would just have to work through and I
don't think it's that big deal. It's
really kind of a spirit of the the the
law versus the language or the versus
the the black and white of the law of
could we land the floating zone and then
create some lots that are applicable to
the mixeduse floating zone that do not
have direct frontage on six.
There's there's a little sort of a
procedural thing that I would want to
work out with maybe our town attorney um
and your team, but I I think the
commission is certainly within their
power to look at the entire project
um as as the master plan and and land
the floating zone on that whole property
um to enable what you're you're doing.
And then what you're talking about
beyond that is really just a question of
phasing for financing and septic
development purposes. Okay.
>> Um, as long as as long as you are
proceeding down the track of the master
plan of the whole thing as a mixeduse
concept, I think that's something that's
that's pretty much why that regulation
was developed in the first place.
>> The uh
so again uh never having done one of
these didn't I had a preconceived notion
of what it might look like in my head
from reading the words. I don't know
that the words are exactly right, but
where I got hung up is under the
applicability. The floating zone may be
applied to any lot or assemblage of lots
located in the very designated business
or industrial
and so
or with frontage on route six jed
>> where we have simple.
Okay.
Yeah. I don't know what fe simple
frontage means, but
>> well, it's it's not not accessed by an
easement that they they own the frontage
on Route Six.
>> Okay. Yeah. I so it was different than I
was thinking you know and over need for
housing and uh um
but when I was some of these lots have
are rear lots that exit onto
>> looks like the culde-sac
>> on Lyn Holmes corner.
>> Yeah.
>> And some on 87.
Well, yeah. And there's also a DOT
approval for the uh room 87 uh right
>> only for single family.
>> Yes. Yeah. We would have to reinvent the
wheel of all those applications with the
DOT. Yes.
>> I mean, I'm not opposed to what what
you're proposing. I think it's a good
thing because
we we got to figure out how to make the
words go there.
>> Yeah.
>> In the density that you're proposing
then probably something
more significant. You know, I look
through I look through the action items
that we wrote down to expand the ability
to put housing in uh with our planet
conservation development update and I
didn't see anything that came close to
uh the number of units you guys put in.
That doesn't mean that it it can't be
that way. cuz you're coming in with a
plan that's a little bit bigger than
what we were
>> Yeah.
>> anticipating might come hand over his
way.
>> Yeah. And we kept it small. We we kept,
you know, the the uh the big
we could have, you know, we could have
we could have proposed, you know, we
could have looked at potentially closing
200 units. But, um, again, this would
there's a lot of community reading. Um
and then obviously a lot of um uh uh
separation with greenery between you
know the uh the town homes as well.
Yeah. Um, and then also, you know, I
think you made a very good point, which
is the size of it, but I think being
able to kind of look at it from, you
know, 10 individual lots, it kind of
scales it down into a bite-sized
approach and we can work with the town
in a manner with which, you know, we're
not there no bottlenecks, you know, from
trying to squeeze all 86 units done at
once, right? Uh but that said, you know,
to to John's point, I think it's
absolutely critical that we we look at
it from the the big overarching master
plan and we scale it down and then we
just take it a bite-sized approach until
we get to that point. And I think it
it'll be probably easier on both ends
and working through it.
>> So you guys have um done this a few
times before. You have the Manchester
one. Yeah.
>> Um what do you expect the the turnover
to be? Is there like a annual renters
agreement? Yeah. So, we we we we do what
we call um long-term uh leases. The
long-term leases are 12 months and up.
Uh we try to uh incentivize folks to
sign lease for multiple years at a time.
Some of the things that we do is that if
you agree to stay here for 3 years at a
time, you don't ever have to worry about
uh rent increases. Uh depending on where
inflation might be, they might be
standard 2 to 3% rent increases and
tenants could avoid that if they rock in
multiple years. Uh, but we rarely do
anything under um about 12 months. There
are cases where we would do it, but
they're one-off cases and there has to
be like a really good reason for it.
What's your um what's your projection on
going from
zero to fully
>> fully leased? So, um I'll give you an
example. We just finished 12 units. Um
now, it was uh it's a new construction,
but it it it was a conversion of an
existing building. We basically, you
know, demoed it out to the shower,
rebuilt it with a whole new different
purpose. It was 12 units. Um, we were,
uh, I would say we were fully done by
the end of February and that's when we
finalized all permits, closed everything
out with the town. Um, the entire
apartment, we had leases in hand by the
second week of March. Um, folks were
moving in obviously May, April, some in
June. Um but because that house's the
demand um so strong everything that we
put out there we had leases in hand
within a few weeks.
>> Yeah. I think what I was thinking about
is um you know that this is new to
Andover, right?
>> Um we have a we have a small school and
it seems like it's likely that families
will be moving in.
>> Sure. So we have to also just consider
what that load is going to be on
elementary making sure that it's
probably stacked. So I might there might
be a a transitional period there where
trying to keep up with who's there.
>> Yeah.
>> And um if they if people are signing
longer term leases then they can judge
how many teachers they need.
>> Absolutely.
>> Yeah. I think that's that's that's um
that's a great point and I think you
know certainly we can we can sit down
and get a little bit more granular and
figure out you know what a launch
strategy looks like um you know what
would be conducive to just the existing
resources and the infrastructure that
the town has that we may not necessarily
have a direct burden to provide um and
and what the town can accommodate and
and we're we're more than happy to kind
of sit down and figure that out. Um,
obviously, you know, it's it's the the
other side of it, which, you know,
probably going to need a little bit more
time to be able to sort of have have any
tax related revenue accumulate to be
able to sort of start deploying it in in
various other areas to to start
expanding capacity for saving the
schools to to assist. But we did do some
estimates um you know of of what that
would look like in terms of the
potential additional tax revenues um
that the town uh may be able to generate
to help support with with all of that
expansion as well.
>> Yeah. We just never done a scale.
>> We're not looking at four or five
bedrooms. These are all two
bedroomedroom.
>> Yeah. One and a half. One and a half.
Yeah. Yes. Um but yes, to your point,
you know, those those apartments, yes,
in in a lot of the units that we have
that are like that, there are families
with it's either a couple or couple that
may not have, you know, kids at home
anymore or there's a lot of the in
between, mostly toddlers. Yeah. So,
>> it's not a bad problem to have. They
would heads up potential
>> 60 to 80 kids coming in.
>> Yeah.
>> So, anyway, I
>> go ahead, John.
>> Yeah. No. So I and again this is this is
getting what you know cart before the
horse uh and not getting get out over
our skis to mix metaphors there but yeah
I was going to confirm these are all
proposed at two-bedroom
um and and broadly speaking
uh two-bedroom units tend to generate uh
children uh for the school districts at
a rate of about one kid per four or per
five units or so. Um, so you know, 80 80
new units would tend to uh average, you
know, 15 to 20 kids. It's not, you know,
it's not two kids per unit and you're
not looking at hundreds. Um, it really
is, you know, three plus bedrooms where
you start to to generate a lot of kids
on on balance. And and again, broadly
speaking, you know, Andover could use
some some more kids.
>> That's nice to know.
We probably probably need to move as
long as this is just a concept
discussion and and I appreciate it and
you guys
>> did a great job. I don't I'm going to be
the Debbie Downer.
>> Um some things you're going to have to
consider in the master plan for for all
this
>> is um you passed our fire right there.
>> Thank you.
>> And we have no municipal water and no
sewer. Yeah. I suspect your plan is
going to change maybe rather dramatic
dramatically based upon the engineering
and the soil.
>> Yeah.
>> And you know the approvals that you'll
need to get for uh septic disposal
>> of waters. You probably going to do
shared wells for for the buildings and
stuff. That's probably not going to be a
huge issue.
>> Um
>> but that's something you you're going to
need to to consider. Um one one question
worst case of that.
>> Yeah. One question I had. Have you done
a project of this scale before?
>> Not the specific scale. No, but at the
reduced level and the bite-sized
approach. Yes.
>> Okay. All right. It's just curious.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
anyway, that was that was my big thing.
And if you look back on the on the
original Rosewood Acres subdivision,
there was, you know, they had to do a
sistern for it.
>> But this is going to take considerably
more than than that,
>> right?
>> And they're going to have to work with
the fire marshal and those guys on
>> stuff.
>> It's either system or fire suppression
for each unit. And so we don't what the
rules are. We just say to the
>> Yeah. And Wayne, if you don't mind, I'll
reach out for a contacted fire marshal
because we have some questions around,
you know, is a sprinkler going to be
required or and just all of those
questions, we'll reach out to them. I
think, you know, for us, the most
important thing is is is um, you know,
we're talking very large substantial
capital to just even do like per tax.
And the other thing is in in our
regulations, and I don't know how that
applies to a a mixed use floating zone,
we have requirements for open space
>> in subdivisions. And
um the previous subdivision
used a provision uh for
um I guess their way out of that
>> disclaimer. Be open space.
>> Yeah. a fee in Louisville open space. So
that that's just something else.
>> Yeah. So we're we're looking, you know,
there's going to be preservation of
natural woodland uh edges. Um a lot of
them are already done by the datam
engineering folks and we would be
looking to build
>> but the preservation open space means
actually uh deeding that land over to
the town or some conservation
organization or something like that
>> or fee in L of open space. Yeah, I think
um uh throughout phase one there's about
seven acres of natural land um and sort
of reinforces the annual character
during that period.
>> But I there again, we're still in the
infant stages here. I I don't want to
>> I just want to plant that seed.
>> Absolutely. Absolutely. That's all I'm
trying to get.
>> Yeah. Thank you. Um so, you know, I I I
in the interest of time, I just want to
say thank you all for just listening.
Um, we just wanted the indication that
if we went ahead and pursued this from a
10,000 foot view, at least we have the
support of the commission. Obviously,
you know, no approvals here to say go
ahead and do this, but we just wanted to
know we'll make sure that we have
alignment to go down this path. Um, but
please, you know, keep me honest and and
it sounds like we do. And so, um, we'll
we'll keep chipping away and
keep engaging through John and Wayne.
>> Biggest thing we've had going on in the
last 10 years is our dollar general.
You're probably not the only one. You're
not you're probably not the only town
allowing
>> and and I would offer this to the
commission. We talked about the six
corridor and uh how this
>> fits into that because it has frontage
on Route Six,
>> right? Yeah,
>> the commission wants to consider
>> adding that little short section of
Route 87,
>> little words.
>> Um, because you're going to have to do a
traffic study and it seems to me not
being a traffic engineer, but having
stuff directed to come out on 87 at the
traffic light would be
>> Yeah, that'd be great.
>> Yeah.
>> Would be. or business coming out on an
old corner that I do. It's probably
that residential road coming out,
>> right?
>> It's probably not I don't think that was
ever approved
acres.
>> Yeah. So the a road going directly from
the retail building to the culdeac, not
roots.
>> Oh, that's that wasn't never
>> Yeah,
>> that was never key. Right.
But yeah, you can do in your master
plan. I mean, you could uh, you know,
widen and repave bling squares.
That on the roof six there.
>> Yeah. Yeah. To lot one where
>> Yeah, there was because uh DOT
um did say something about a historical
marker or something that's down there
that they wanted the curb cut moved or
something like that in the original
proposal. Yeah,
>> I got I got one more question about the
previous approval when this this was
approved for Rosewood Acres. Does
anybody know if there's a DWT file,
AutoCAD file?
>> We do not have an electronic.
>> I don't think I don't think the town
would have that. We would have to reach
out to I Well, it whoever whoever uh
Keith Grimmaldi had used. Yeah, we have
a scan
of
>> Okay, so we'll take
just a we'll take that.
>> You're welcome to It's public record and
just buy it.
>> No worries.
>> Awesome. Um, any any other questions?
Any further questions, comments?
>> No, I I I'm excited. I mean, this is
something. I I I like I said, I suspect
the final
final um whatever
>> the site Yeah, the site plan will be
will be a lot detailed. Yes.
>> Might be different than
>> Yeah, there's a lot of different
topographies there. There's a lot of
wetlands, intermittent stream.
>> Yeah,
>> that all have to work into this.
>> Absolutely.
>> The septics and the wells, you know,
you're putting 20 bedrooms on Yeah.
>> one lawn. Yeah. That's a lot of subject.
There's a lot of wealth. Yeah,
>> absolutely.
>> And then the whole how how's that all
going to be maintained in perpetuity and
stuff like that is is going to be a
concern because I know there's a lot of
leaps and
>> Yeah.
Well, yes.
>> Well, you guys can do it.
>> Yeah. Which is I mean with with your
support, we are extremely confident that
we can execute on this.
>> Yeah. Awesome.
>> Thank you, John. Thanks a lot, ladies
and gentlemen. Thank you so much. Thank
you.
>> Thank you guys.
>> All right. Have a good night, guys. Have
a good night.
>> Up next is Jessica Chap
this time.
>> Okay. So, my concept is much simpler.
Yeah.
I own the 32 apartments um on Kingsley
Drive. We have four buildings and each
building has eight apartments.
Ideally, we I would like to add on um
possibly as many as 32 more apartments
um three buildings or four buildings,
whatever that looks like from the site
plan.
The yellow building in the attachment is
a really good idea of the concept
because what we have now is garden style
onebedroom, one bath apartments.
That is
that just is what Andover needs more of.
We know this. Um I've owned this for 24
years. I barely turn three apartments a
year and often have a waiting list more
than 6 months long. It's very much the
norm there. So the idea is to continue
to have one-bedroom apartments, possibly
bigger to kind of help out our couples.
the apartments I now they're about 650
660 square feet would be looking more
around 800 or so give or take. So the
property that I own in Willington
is kind of an ideal
blend because it has both garden units
and ranch units. So with the ranch
units, this would be very ideal for our
seniors.
Um, I very often get calls for seniors
and I only have one building that does
not have stairs that only has two first
floor apartments.
So, the chances of them ever getting in
are very low. Um, so the idea of the
ranch units. This particular building,
believe it or not, has two ranch units
at the end. But depending what the site
plan would allow, we could have either
one ranch unit at the end or two. And
that would definitely help the
affordable housing situation in Andover.
>> I like your idea for a laundry room,
too.
>> Yeah. I mean,
>> I lived at your apartments. And one
thing I did like was that you kept it
wellmaintained and uh your uh your
rental agreement was nice and strong.
You know, it keeps people in line.
>> It does not scratch the place.
>> Well, and that's
>> and that's that's key, you know.
>> It is. Yeah. And I think
I think there if really anyone gave any
push back, let's be honest, how often
the policeman,
>> you know, the fire department, we just
we're so set back in the road. We mind
our business. We don't cause any
trouble. I'm saying we collectively,
it's a community. It's just a really
beautiful property and, you know,
everyone can benefit. And I'd love to
keep some of my couples around longer
and I think that would help a lot too.
>> Would you be
>> Well,
I think this is this is a time to ask
too. Would you be open to an over 55
community?
>> So, I don't know if I could blend that
because the idea is that I own all 24
acres. So it would come down to how we
make the existing property conform,
>> right?
>> Um I would definitely be open to it.
Point me in that direction if not there
somewhere else in town. I mean I have 34
experience 34 years experience total.
24 years on my own owning.
So I've done remodeling um flip houses.
done some pretty serious renovations as
a whole. Um, one step away from knocking
buildings down, building them back up.
Actually, one place we did. Um, and I'm
just I mean, it's what I do. I'm open to
a lot of possibilities.
>> So, you're proposing to add apartments
to
>> Yes. where the stars are.
>> Stars, not necessarily one or not
necessarily each star is one building,
but possibly here or there, you know,
just kind of based around my idea of the
>> on the existing lot.
>> Yeah.
>> And those are the best ways to to share
the driveway. The map does show that
it's connected, but it's really not.
This building has its own entrance off
of Wales Road. Yep.
>> And then this driveway ends here.
So just thinking, you know, the least
amount of infrastructure still offering
the most amount of privacy because I
want to stay very true to what
Whispering Hills is.
>> And that's why, you know, the idea of
the Willington property just really fits
because they're garden style anyway.
They're just neat and tidy buildings.
>> Okay. So on this
is this one, two, three, four, five
units or is there zero?
>> No. So here, so see the green door here.
>> Yep.
>> Two apartments on the first floor. Two
on the second.
>> So that's 4, 8, 12, and 14.
>> There's two. So there's one entrance
here.
>> Y
>> and then
on this side here, there's another
entrance on each.
>> Okay. So,
>> so believe it or not, you know, those
are two 800 foot apartments.
So, that might look a little different
to Andover,
you know,
>> bigger than what you got there,
>> bigger or
best use of the land to get the idea of
the ranches. I really want that for our
seniors.
You have
>> I'm all for this. It's a great idea.
Nobody even knows that art exists down
there.
>> Unfortunately, exist may require
some zoning, some text amendment
regarding,
>> you know, the regulations that allowed
for these these were done in what
>> 67 regulations that that allow for these
to be built have been repealed.
Um my thought would be, you know, that
would come under the 830G
statute.
>> Yeah.
>> And nothing says it has to be
adversarial. You know, we can work with
the town, make it win-win. It would
require you to have deed restricted
affordable units, but I think that's the
price you're at anyhow. That probably no
big um
concern. But that allows you to do
outside of what our zoning regulations
would would currently allow, which you
know what you just heard being on Route
Six, they got into a special thing that
wouldn't be applicable where you are,
but that doesn't retail there.
>> No, thank you. No, it's
>> but
as long as you can make the the septic
and the water and and all that,
>> right,
>> you come in with that 830G thing, I
think. John, what are your thoughts?
>> Yeah. So, um yeah, so we we we met out
on site. I met with the the owner um a
couple of weeks ago and and you know,
Cards on the Table, I think it's an
outstanding idea uh because it's a
really,
you know, a terrific development that
again is is basically wholly additive to
the town. It really doesn't detract in
any way because you can't really see it
or know anybody's down there. Um so it's
a a really nice spot and a nice level of
development, but as as Wayne said, um
the regulations that allowed it to be
created don't exist anymore. And so it's
in that in that way non-conforming and
she would need a variance to expand in
any way or a text change or to get to
the bottom line as you said Jed uh to go
830G
um which is which is without question
the easiest
path forward from a application
administration perspective right now. Um
it it really is just a matter of and and
we we talked a little bit um when we
were out on site about the rents she's
receiving right now and what that is
relative to affordability levels. And
you know again back of the back of the
envelope it it seems like most of the
units that she's renting would qualify
as affordable housing if they were just
restricted that way. But they're
obviously market units and and you're
you know you're free to increase your
rent whenever you want.
Um, and this would just, you know,
restrict your ability to do that on on
30% of the of the units. But if the
numbers work, I think 830G is a
fantastic path forward uh for a project
like this. It just we would just need to
work out those those numbers.
Otherwise, if if that didn't work, then
the commission would have to look at
adjusting its regulations um in terms of
in terms of multif family. But one of
the things that you know
I would prefer to not change the
regulations is because I want to bring
the deed restricted affordability to
handover and this gives us the tool to
force that to have this kind of thing
which I think is great. You know, I uh I
like
everything about it, but the thing that
would be disappointing to me about the
the one we listened to before is we have
no uh
means, if you will, to require a certain
percentage to be affordable. I don't
know if we can make that work or not,
but the fact that, you know, an 830G
proposal came to Andover, we're going to
we work with it. That's a huge win for
the town. Just, you know, and I I guess
the other thing that John, you probably
got a feel. I keep hearing all this
money being granted to people working on
affordable housing things. Is there
anything that, you know, Jessica could
use to help her out?
>> Yeah. I mean there there are there are
currently there are currently tax credit
programs um that that would you know
there are 4% tax credits and 9% tax
credits through CHFA which can help um
the the bigger pot of money that was
sort of promised by the governor and the
legislature
that that accompanies this um
you know these affordable housing
mandates that that the the legislature
passed in November. that pot of money
hasn't been created yet. So, um it's
going to take I would say a couple of
years before that financing becomes
available and it'll be available on a
competitive process. Um what I can
promise you and again this is this is a
couple of years down the the road is
that I happen to chair the state council
on housing development that is going to
oversee the expenditure of these grant
funds once they become available. And I
can promise you that um I will advocate
for small town projects such as this to
be properly, you know, supported. Um but
again, that that program has not been
created yet. So, you know, there there
are funding opportunities. The big money
hasn't hap hasn't really become
available yet.
But again, you know, Jessica, your your
your business model is essentially you
run these things as affordable housing
without the deed restriction. So, you
know, the hope is if we can keep
construction costs relatively under
control,
you could keep this rolling. But, you
know, that's I'm I'm you know, I I I
don't hold your purse.
Well, I mean,
technically all 32 apartments now fall
within the affordable housing, and
that's due to the square footage. Um,
residents who have just lived there so
long, especially local. They're not
getting raises as often as, you know,
some corporate people. Um, we have a lot
of retirees. So, we offer that now. So I
the property can be run like that.
Obviously the infrastructure is my game
changer. Moving ahead. Any grants with
that would help me continue to keep
everything affordable. But it's easily
manageable, especially if we're using
the land wisely and we're sharing the
wells properly, sharing the septic
properly. um just adding on to the
existing driveway, not clearing the
whole property and you know all kinds of
driveways everywhere.
>> That's one of the funny things about
affordable housing is even though it's
affordable,
>> it doesn't count.
>> What do you mean?
>> Listen, you just market market rate
affordable unrestricted affordable
>> there. So it even though in you know I
love a very it's an affordable town you
know none of it counts.
>> We'll work on that.
>> Yeah.
>> And so that's why
>> project this project coming in under
that you know can can really help the
town out. They can help you out too if
it's the wheel for everybody. Everybody
seems on the same page with what it
needs, wants,
>> you know, and how we want to maintain
the look and feel.
>> So, I love that about this project, too.
>> Good project. Personally like the back
porch idea, too.
>> That we'll see about that.
>> Not opposed to it again, like if the
land allows.
>> Right. Right.
>> You know, it's certainly an interesting
piece of land. I'm not looking to do a
lot of excavating because I love how it
is now. So, we just really want to
utilize it in that way.
>> Oh, and how about uh I know that some of
your units have one car garage space.
>> Are you planning on continuing that or
just maybe not with these?
>> That's going to be a big engineer
question.
>> Okay. Because say for instance near
building 41,
I could potentially see a driveway being
very easy to turn into to get into
garages.
Um, but again, that's that's definitely
going to be an engineer question, but it
is on my list of questions.
>> You know, they don't want to be cleaning
off their cars. We we do it for them
anyway, but they feel bad asking. So
they have their own garages, they'd be
happy.
>> So and and I have the same I I would say
the same thing. Um because since 19
since the 60s, we now have the fire
suppression regulations that you're
going to have to consider. And uh
>> all conversations have been favorable
for that. Um the gentleman who takes
care of my well system because I am a
public water supply. He's been out.
We've discussed that um with
>> I know you can
you can manage manage that. Yeah.
>> But the fire suppression I think is
probably new to your complex.
>> It would be.
>> Yeah.
>> Do you know like
>> you got you don't know any numbers like
how many units it starts to be required
in? I'm not even gonna go there. Talk to
the fire marshal.
>> Yeah,
>> but she can get a hold in.
>> Good guy.
>> Yeah, his number is on the website
somewhere. Yeah,
>> I actually have it.
>> You have it?
>> It's Andover,
>> right?
>> I'm sure he's I'm sure.
>> No, no, no.
>> He's got to go up there and do
inspections and stuff anyway.
>> Sure. Yeah,
>> this would be a great thing for him to
>> I agree.
>> Just maybe you can use them again.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah, I'll give you one back. I'm going
to keep going.
>> So there I think you be looking for
master plan.
I'm looking at JL
for this.
>> Oh yeah, you know it's going to have
public hearing effect.
Um
>> but the beauty of the G is
unless we can
>> say that you know there's something
unsafe or there's a couple other but you
keep seeing in the newspapers
>> that's why I brought that up that
you have to address
>> and then
I guess safely is really the big thing
>> you know traffic
fire dramatic all that
are going to ask about
one man.
>> Maybe one Stanford or something
front page of the Sunday paper at the
>> Oh, it's east this time. Yeah. that uh
being taken to court by the developer
because they are moving the 830 gene and
uh
simply don't ask that. Yeah.
>> Yeah. So
>> yeah, I mean obviously
who lives there, my insurance has
certain requirements because we don't
have a fire hydra in town. So you know
that all goes into it. My agent just so
happens to be a fire chief. So I feel
like I get excellent advice. Excellent
advice.
>> Where are you building apartments in
Wellington?
>> Deepo Road.
>> Okay.
>> Right behind this.
>> I'm originally from
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. I'm across from the condos.
>> Nice. P. So pretty there. Very quiet.
Just like Andover,
>> right? Any questions?
>> There'll be lots of questions when the
plan comes. I'll
>> do my best to have them prepared.
Thank you.
>> No, thank you.
>> Thank you.
Moving along to correspondence.
>> In the interest of time, you guys dealt
with the
correspondence. Okay. The Rosewood
Acres.
Um,
I don't have any other correspondence.
Okay. Any uh commission discussion?
Anyone online?
>> I have a question.
>> Go ahead.
>> Um, back to the the vacancy. Um, Wayne,
what date did you say you and the town
clerk came up with next month?
>> May 18th.
So it looks like that falls the day
before our May meeting.
>> So if we go beyond 60 days, um it
according to the charter, it appears to
defer to the board of selectmen.
>> Um I imagine the selectman would go
along if we had a recommended candidate
then, but I'm just pointing out that it
looks like we'd be one day past the
18th. I'll be honest with you. I'm not
too worried about the board of select
management. Um I think as long as we're
doing something, they're they're not
going to worry too much about it. What
about
>> about filling the vacancy?
>> No, we we said in our last meeting, you
know, I brought it up and then you're
supposed to do it with Matt.
>> Yeah. I did it.
>> Is it all done?
>> No, it's not done. But we're waiting.
The closing was is the closing for
letters of interest is May 18th.
>> Oh yeah, for that. But what about the
agent agent? I thought Oh, what was
agent? Yeah.
>> Oh,
>> we're supposed to act by the 18th.
>> We're talking two different things. They
are. Yeah.
Are you talking about the vacancy on the
um planning and zoning commission?
Correct.
Yes.
>> Okay.
>> But hopefully we can address that at the
next meeting.
>> Yeah. As soon as you get it get it done
and bring it to selection. You're not
going to worry about it there.
>> Yeah. We're just going to go with
we have two two interested parties to
date.
Um,
if anybody else is interested, um, if if
just invite them to the meeting on the
19th, then you guys can interview them.
Does that sound reasonable?
>> Yep. Sounds good.
>> Okay.
>> Yes. I'm just pointing out that if
you're saying that May 18th is the 60th
day after the notice to the town clerk,
then if we go to the 61st day, I mean,
we would be over that. I'm you know I
imagine as I um started to say that the
select men would go along with whatever
we wanted to do as long as we didn't go
into the summer or something. But I'm
just pointing out that the time frame
from if the May 18th is 60 days from the
date that you agreed on after the notice
to the town clerk that we would just be
at the 61st day. It's probably not going
to be an issue. When Scott's telling us
that he doesn't think it's going to be
an issue,
>> I I don't think it would be an issue at
all.
>> Okay.
>> Um as far as the wetlands is concerned,
um
we talked about that at our last
meeting,
>> right? and said that you and Matt can
>> Yeah, we collaborate and get that the
guy
>> we I'm trying to think if we we've been
collaborating. I'm trying to think if we
got that announcement out yet. Um
I don't think
we have. I sent words to Kate.
I haven't talked to our new guy yet. Um
>> that's Matt.
>> Matt.
>> Yeah. I just introduced myself from
yesterday. So,
>> right.
>> So, when you get a second, you go up and
talk to him. Now, you got to go ahead
>> to get that going.
>> Announce it.
get some candidates for the right I
talked to Duncan
>> because I I think it's it's
um somebody from the wetlands commission
or somebody from the
board of selectment and some third
person to do interviews right
and Duncan was okay with with that
manager should be on the interview Yeah.
Okay. Then that'll be a third person
then.
>> That's what we did in the past, right?
>> Yeah.
>> And
that's it. There is a uh
a uh
discussion group that Joe was part of
and I'm now reading their emails. I can
post something to that discussion group.
A group of of planners and wetlands
types and stuff like that. You're
probably part of it too, John. I think
I've seen the Yukon at Yukon discussion
group.
>> Oh, the lister.
>> The lister.
>> Yeah, sure. There's a planners list
where where these things can be posted.
Um Yeah. And and I'd be happy to help
you spread the word on that. I I will
note and not not speaking for her, but
um Colombia Colombia's wetlands officer
um Savannah Kitchen, she's the zoning
and wetlands officer in Colombia. um I
think would be interested in helping. Um
she lives in Colchester, lives nearby.
She loves she loves wetlands work.
>> So that that that could be an option on
on an interim basis or or someone that
that might be interested in the in the
gig.
>> I met her I met her at the Casio.
>> Okay.
>> Was there any discussion about asking
Jim Belly to come back temporarily?
>> No. As a wetland agent?
>> Yeah. He usually
>> Oh, they can do that. But no, it hasn't
been um
I will reach out to J.
>> Okay.
>> But then we need approval to pay him
from somebody.
>> Yeah,
I'm sure you
>> Well, I mean, presumably there's a
presumably there's a there's a wetlands
staff line item in the budget.
>> There is. Yeah, but I think he has to do
something to
bust that old
>> and maybe he doesn't want to do it. I
don't know. Yeah,
>> great Jim back to the office a little
bit.
Yeah, I think he's consider
occasionally. Yeah.
He seems to be enjoying himself. Really?
>> Yes. Yes, he is. Yep.
>> Okay. Next.
>> All right. So, that was uh
so that Well,
is that your administrative report?
>> Sure. That's my administrative report.
>> Okay.
>> Oh, go ahead. Sorry. I've been out on a
few blight complaints recently. Um, and
hopefully the worst one on Hutcherson
Road has been taken care of. I teamed up
with the health department on that one.
>> How about the Zolola Road?
>> Um, I've been out there. I haven't been
back to see if he got rid of the junk
like he said he was going through. So,
I walked up there the other day
and he's got one of these big temporary
structures in front of his garage. I
think he put two trailers in, but
>> well, that he actually had a structure
there that got smooshed in the snow.
>> Well, he's got this huge
work. Well, you know, the book's cleaned
up a little bit, but he's still got
stuff.
>> He has curious.
>> He has had his the he has um Hellstrom.
Hellstrom's been out there. It's all
marked, but the flags and stuff,
>> you know, to do a site plan
>> are out there. I've seen them. I saw
those. So,
he's moving slowly. And he did file
income. Okay.
>> He did. I I missed it. He filed it back
in December.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. Good.
>> So,
>> so on Wales Road, it's the same house.
>> Wales.
>> No.
>> Biza.
>> Bizola. But you said Wales also, right?
>> No, I didn't.
>> There's another lake.
>> No. Hutchinson.
>> Oh, Hudson.
>> Hutchinson.
But that one, like I said, that one I
the health department. I I teamed up
with the health department on that one
and hopefully it's been a baby.
She was moving stuff cleaning up. I
haven't been back to see how much she
got done.
So for the inland wetland report, you
know, it was kind of So we were working
on the plan for the
uh
bridge over on
the Zola road.
And you know, it dawned on me that I'm
not sure that we should be
we, the inland wetlands, be reviewing
and acting on a plan that hasn't been
reviewed by a wetlands agent.
And so that got me to be looking back at
the previous
bridge on Longill
and I don't ever So we authorized Joe to
act on that
plan after it ran the uh his decision
ran in the paper for two weeks and they
could go ahead and I don't ever recall
that that guy put the
But it could have been. But so hopefully
we're working on
>> a uh a wetland agent would certainly
help.
>> Yeah, I
mentioned that
John. Yeah,
>> but that's all I got.
>> Well, thank you.
>> You're next on the agenda here.
>> Oh, me?
>> Yes, sir.
>> Okay. Um, so is it So, yeah, actually a
lot of discussions this month have have
involved a lot of the multif family
stuff. Again, we met with Jessica out on
site um and and had a lot of phone calls
and emails back and forth with Leslie
and his crew about the uh Linhome Corner
property. So, um, excited to to to, you
know, try to help these properties, uh,
these projects move forward. Um, so I
understand Matt Matt is Matt Streer.
He's the new town administrator. He's on
board. Okay. So, just following up, uh,
some of our conversation. Um,
Mr. chair. Uh Patrick, I
it's would be important to sit down with
Matt, introduce myself, and and kind of
talk about moving forward into the
future because, you know, uh a new
budget cycle is coming up. You know, my
my major task with this commission was,
you know, to to assist with grants and
primarily with the PC, which is now, you
know, on the books. Um and so we have to
figure out how I can continue to help
the town if if that's in the cards. So,
um I if you know I'll I'll work at
getting an appointment with yourself,
Patrick, and and the new town manager
and uh see how see how we can work
together moving forward. But, uh I think
there's a lot there's a lot to be done
and I'd like to be part of it.
>> At the at the budget hearings, I sold
you as a uh you're going to be working
on the affordable housing.
>> Okay.
>> Y and economic development
>> and economic
>> Yes. And we had our economic development
meeting last night and we also would
request your assistance
going forward.
>> It looked to me that in the budget was
the same amount
>> still in the budget. Yeah.
>> Still in the budget long you're budgeted
>> for now. Keep it that way.
>> Well, a consultant is budgeted.
Hopefully, it's still me.
>> Correct. Yeah, you are.
>> Go for it.
>> And um I haven't got a response from the
new U town administrator, but I'll I'll
follow up on that too, John.
>> Okay.
>> Great.
>> Thank you.
Um anything else, John?
>> Um no, nothing for I mean I I I'm
tracking um the the affordable housing
legislation and how it rolls out through
the through the region, through the COG.
Um, and there's nothing there's nothing
major to report at this point. So, I I
you know, we're we're okay.
>> Okay. Thank you. But John, asked the
lady in Colombia for if she can help us
with the wetlands in a short term.
>> Yeah, I think I think she'd be she'd be
more than happy to try to try to help.
It's just a question of who who
specifically to put her in touch with.
>> Wayne.
>> Okay. Yeah, I can. Wayne, I'll put you
and Savannah on an email chain together.
>> Yeah. Okay.
If you need anything, just call me,
you know, question.
>> All right. Moving on to public speak.
Okay. Next, um unless there's anybody
else has anything talk about that's not
on the agenda.
>> Moving on to approval of minutes.
>> You are unmuted.
discussion.
>> Got a couple comments on minutes. Okay.
The uh
so under public present
we should include Thomas Tur, Elizabeth
Pollson
because they were here presenting
their plan.
And then down
on the bottom paragraph that starts out
guiding principles
when we're talking about POC it's the
guiding principles include quality of
life housing opportunities
and then the next word is conversation
and I thought it might be conservation
although the next word is conservation
as well. So, but
but it was a conversation. I'm confident
of that.
>> Problem is just
get rid of one.
>> And then on page three under the old
business,
the uh last sentence under POC,
item B,
uh it said reviewed Andover Elementary
School enrollment date. I think that
should be dead.
>> That was all.
>> Could this be conservation?
All the life I have to conservation and
see there then conservation mapping.
>> Yeah, it could be. Yeah. Yeah.
>> So there should be a comma there. Maybe
conservation and conservation mapping
possibly.
Is there a motion going into the
minutes?
Um,
anybody else have any comments?
>> Make a motion to amend the as discussed.
I'll make a motion to approve the
minutes as amended.
I'll second that.
Any further discussion?
Go ahead. Lean.
Oh, thought you had something to say.
Sorry. Be ready to vote. She's ready to
vote. All right. Um,
let's take a vote of the approval of
minutes. Go ahead, Liam.
me.
>> Yeah.
>> I
>> J I Scott I
Henry
>> I am going to abstain because I was not
at the meeting.
>> Okay. And I go I so motion passes 41.
>> Next regular schedule meeting May 19th
and uh that's going to be a great
meeting. Just tell our
Make a motion to adjourn. I'll make a
motion we
I
>> I
>> thank you everybody for your time.